update readme (#911)
opentensor/prompting: README.md

<div align="center">

# Apex

**A decentralized platform for algorithmic competition at internet scale.**

[![Discord Chat](https://img.shields.io/discord/308323056592486420.svg)](https://discord.gg/bittensor)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Docs](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docs-8A2BE2)](https://docs.macrocosmos.ai/subnets/new-subnet-1-apex)

</div>

---

## What is Apex?

> Apex is a platform for outsourcing algorithmic innovation. Customers bring a problem. A global network of miners competes to solve it. Apex routes the best solution back.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apex is a platform for outsourcing intelligence. Customers bring a problem. A global network of miners competes to solve it. Apex routes the best solution back.
```

[Apex](https://apex.macrocosmos.ai/) is a platform for **outsourced, decentralized intelligence**. Organizations and researchers define a measurable objective. Humans and autonomous agents submit solutions — code, models, data, strategies, simulations. Apex continuously evaluates every submission and captures the **full intelligence engine**, not just the leaderboard: the code, the models, the datasets, the pipelines, and the lineage of how solutions evolved.

Apex is built by [Macrocosmos](https://macrocosmos.ai/) and runs as **Subnet 1** on the [Bittensor](https://bittensor.com/) network.

## Who it's for

> 

Reviewer 2: We should branch the README file:

 - Competition Owners (Build your own competition)
 - Participating Solvers (Earn rewards by creating the best algorithms)

I think the participants should have their own separate README file.  The competition owners can stay here.

With a defined problem and benchmark, Apex outsources, researches, and finds solutions - eliminating staffing, managing and waiting on an internal research solution.

- **Organizations** that want to run open or private competitions around any measurable objective.
- **Research labs and foundations** that want to crowdsource progress on an open benchmark instead of running a one-off prize.
- **Product teams** that need a working algoritm as a component — not a paper, not a prototype, but code that runs and produces results.
- **Domain experts** who can specify what "better" looks like in their field but don't have the ML or systems engineering depth to build it themselves.

> - **Agents and the systems that build them** that need access to specialized reasoning environments, not just LLM endpoints.

Reviewer 2: I'd like to say something about how this would be great for problems that have complex landscapes that involve multiple dependent variables.  This includes complex optimization problems where exhaustive search is impractical.

Reviewer 2: Each of the bullet points here should probably be explicit in their role: competition owner vs solver.

## How Apex works

1. **Define** — a competition is created around a measurable objective function `f(x) → ℝ`.
    - Customers define a task, a dataset or environment, and a scoring function. Apex stands up the competition and exposes it to miners.
2. **Launch** — the competition is spun up as a containerized round (open or private).
3. **Submit** — humans and autonomous agents contribute solutions through the [Apex CLI](https://docs.macrocosmos.ai/subnets/new-subnet-1-apex/subnet-1-base-miner-setup/apex-cli).
4. **Evaluate** — validators score every submission against the objective, fairly and reproducibly.
   - Apex runs each submission in an isolated sandbox against the customer's evaluation criteria.
   - Every submission is evaluated on the same terms. Leaderboards update continuously as new entries arrive and as miners iterate.
5. **Capture** — Apex retains the full pipeline — solutions, lineage, and artifacts — alongside the leaderboard, and distributes blockchain-based rewards via the [incentive mechanism](https://docs.macrocosmos.ai/subnets/new-subnet-1-apex/incentive-mechanism).

> 6. **Solutions** - Top-ranked submission(s) are delivered as artifacts for deployment, study, or integration.

Reviewer 2: we should say how solvers who are top of the leaderboard (winner-takes-all) are awarded emissions.

> ## What you can build

Reviewer 2: A section on "who are the solvers" would be good. Something like "They are a decentralized group of humans and agentic AI systems that work together to solve the competition in a competitive yet cooperative environment.  Competitive in that it's winner takes all. Cooperative in solutions are shared within the community so players can iterate on others work."

- **And more.**

### Active competitions

Concrete competitions currently running on the subnet:

- **[IOTA Simulator](https://docs.macrocosmos.ai/subnets/subnet-1-apex/subnet-1-current-competitions#iota-simulator)** — Miners submit routing and load-balancing algorithms that orchestrate activations across a network of heterogeneous nodes under realistic conditions (node churn, variable latency, bandwidth constraints).
- **[Energy Arbitrage](https://docs.macrocosmos.ai/subnets/subnet-1-apex/subnet-1-current-competitions#energy-arbitrage)** - Miners submit an algorithmic trading policy that buys and sells electricity against a simulated wholesale market with batteries, price signals, and physical constraints, maximizing profit.
- **[RL Tron](https://docs.macrocosmos.ai/subnets/subnet-1-apex/subnet-1-current-competitions#rl-tron)** - Miner models compete in a head-to-head duel competition on a 30x30 grid. Two miner agents move simultaneously, leaving trails; last alive wins. Run as a single-elimination bracket. Pure real-time decision-making under partial information and adversarial pressure.

> See the [current competitions page](https://docs.macrocosmos.ai/subnets/new-subnet-1-apex/subnet-1-base-miner-setup/current-competitions) for the live list.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should include this in the README as we will forget to maintain.  I would prefer we link to our docs.

## Getting started

> ### For miners (humans and agents)

Reviewer 2: this section should be moved into its own SOLVERS.md file

Let's start calling the miners "Solvers" (human or agents)

Reviewer 2: validators should also be their own md file
